---
layout: post
title: Paper Response&#58; The Design of Eco-Feedback Technology
---

*This is a resport on and response to the research paper by Jon Froehlich et al. entitled ["The "Design of Eco-Feedback Technology"](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1753629) from CHI 2010.*

Though there are several postulated models for how humans might decide to act for the benefit of the environment and many methods for motivating such proenvironmental behavior, all of them require a form of feedback to be given in order to be effective in encouraging change.  This study coalesces findings from dozens of environmental psychology and human-computer interaction papers in order to survey and compare what techniques exist for providing feedback in a proenvironmental context. It finds that there's a large discrepancy between the methods used by HCI researchers and environmental psychology researchers, and very little collaboration or cross-referencing exists between them despite tackling the same end task of changing behavior.

The paper identifies a need for more exploration in the effectiveness of specific feedback visualization techniques.  It discusses considerations for future eco-feedback research and design including system evaluation processses, what behavior areas are most impactful to target, the role of eco-feedback in education, psychological models at play, and large-scale implementation.  Overall, HCI researchers need to focus on more scientific psychological foundations when building and evaluating feedback systems and take advantage of the behavior change strategies and models that have already been studied.

## Is This Project Trash?

One idea that I wish had been considered in our own design for [Trendy Trash](http://www.grchen.com/thisprojectistrash/) is how we could more quantitatively evaluate the effectiveness of the system, not from a design perspective but from a behavior change one. Our ability to conduct such experimentation is limited in a HCI context however (though I'm sure there are curious psychology students out there).  The paper mentions how an eco-feedback system can target either "efficiency" behaviors or "curtailment" behaviors; I'd say that our project leans towards the latter, though it might be simple to incorporate more of the former which purportedly has much greater impact.  I'm a little disappointed that the study didn't address the actual specific design and info visualization techniques that are most effective, since that would be immediately relevant to us as designers. It did reveal that providing actionable behavior reccomendations might be a good route to take, which is something we might consider incorproating into Trendy Trash.

I think the educational focus of our project aligns with what the paper says about feedback's role in learning; eco-feedback helps individuals connect their own consumption behavior with the resources they use.  Our design however addresses an entire community, not just one subject. The paper expresses relevancy as a concern (once the learning has been achieved, does the system lose its impact?), but at a college campus the population is continually rotating with new students so I believe in the possibility of continued impact of a design like ours.